README.md, before:

# Multiplication Game

A browser-based multiplication game designed for children to practice multiplication tables (1×1 to 10×10) with adaptive difficulty and multiple player profiles.

## Features

- **10 Difficulty Levels**: Each level has decreasing time limits (10s → 3s)
- **Adaptive Question Selection**: Questions you struggle with appear more frequently
- **Multiple Player Profiles**: Create and manage separate profiles for different players
- **Progress Tracking**: Automatic saving of progress and statistics
- **Child-Friendly UI**: Large numbers, clear feedback, and encouraging messages
- **Fully Static**: No backend required - works entirely in the browser

## How It Works

### Levels
- **Level 1**: 10 seconds per question
- **Level 2**: 9 seconds per question
- **Level 3**: 8 seconds per question
- **Level 4**: 7 seconds per question
- **Level 5**: 6 seconds per question
- **Level 6**: 5 seconds per question
- **Level 7**: 4 seconds per question
- **Level 8**: 3.5 seconds per question
- **Level 9**: 3 seconds per question
- **Level 10**: 3 seconds per question

Each level has 10 questions. You need to answer 100% correctly to unlock the next level.

### Adaptive Difficulty
The game tracks your performance for each multiplication (e.g., "7×8"). Multiplications you get wrong more often will appear more frequently in future questions, especially at higher levels. This helps you practice the ones you need to work on most.

### Data Storage
All data is stored locally in your browser using LocalStorage:
- Player profiles
- Current level for each profile
- Statistics for each multiplication (correct/wrong counts)
- Last played timestamp

## Getting Started

### Local Development

1. Clone or download this repository
2. Open `index.html` in a web browser
3. No build process or server required!

### File Structure

```
multiplication-game/
├── index.html      # Main HTML file
├── style.css       # Styling
├── main.js         # Game flow and UI
├── gameLogic.js    # Game mechanics and adaptive difficulty
├── profiles.js     # Profile management
├── storage.js      # LocalStorage handling
└── README.md       # This file
```

## Deployment to GitHub Pages

1. Create a new repository on GitHub
2. Push all files to the repository
3. Go to repository Settings → Pages
4. Select the branch (usually `main` or `master`)
5. Select the folder (usually `/root`)
6. Click Save
7. Your game will be available at `https://[username].github.io/[repository-name]`

### Alternative: Using a `/docs` folder

If you prefer to use a `/docs` folder:
1. Create a `docs` folder in your repository
2. Move all files into the `docs` folder
3. In GitHub Pages settings, select `/docs` as the source

## Game Flow

1. **Menu**: Start screen with "Start Game" button
2. **Profile Selection**: Create a new profile or select an existing one
3. **Game Play**: 
   - Answer multiplication questions within the time limit
   - Get immediate feedback on each answer
   - Progress through questions in the level
4. **Level Complete**: 
   - See your results
   - If you passed (100%), unlock the next level
   - If you didn't pass, try again to improve

## Customization

### Adjusting Success Threshold
In `gameLogic.js`, modify the `successThreshold` value:
```javascript
successThreshold: 1.0, // Change to 0.7 for 70%, 0.8 for 80%, 0.9 for 90%, etc.
```

### Adjusting Time Limits
In `gameLogic.js`, modify the `levels` array:
```javascript
levels: [
  { level: 1, timeLimitSeconds: 10, questionsPerLevel: 10 },
  // ... modify timeLimitSeconds for each level
]
```

### Adjusting Questions Per Level
In the same `levels` array, modify `questionsPerLevel`:
```javascript
{ level: 1, timeLimitSeconds: 10, questionsPerLevel: 15 }, // 15 questions instead of 10
```

## Browser Compatibility

Works in all modern browsers that support:
- ES6 JavaScript
- LocalStorage API
- CSS3 (flexbox, gradients)

Tested in:
- Chrome/Edge (latest)
- Firefox (latest)
- Safari (latest)

## License

Free to use and modify for personal or educational purposes.

## Credits

Created as a static web application for practicing multiplication tables with adaptive learning.

Commit message:

Update README to reflect game focus change from multiplication to addition and subtraction. Revise features, problem coverage, and gameplay descriptions accordingly. Adjust file structure and credits to match new game mechanics.

README.md, after:

# Addition & Subtraction Game

A browser-based math game designed for children to practice one-digit addition and subtraction with adaptive difficulty and multiple player profiles.

## Features

- **10 Difficulty Levels**: Each level has decreasing time limits (10s → 3s)
- **Adaptive Question Selection**: Questions you struggle with appear more frequently
- **Multiple Player Profiles**: Create and manage separate profiles for different players
- **Progress Tracking**: Automatic saving of progress and statistics
- **Child-Friendly UI**: Large numbers, clear feedback, and encouraging messages
- **Fully Static**: No backend required - works entirely in the browser

## How It Works

### Levels
- **Level 1**: 10 seconds per question
- **Level 2**: 9 seconds per question
- **Level 3**: 8 seconds per question
- **Level 4**: 7 seconds per question
- **Level 5**: 6 seconds per question
- **Level 6**: 5 seconds per question
- **Level 7**: 4 seconds per question
- **Level 8**: 3.5 seconds per question
- **Level 9**: 3 seconds per question
- **Level 10**: 3 seconds per question

Each level has 10 questions. You need to answer 100% correctly to unlock the next level.

### Problems Covered
The game includes:
- **Addition**: All combinations from 0+0 to 9+9 (100 problems)
- **Subtraction**: All combinations where the result is positive, from 1-0 to 9-9 (55 problems)
- All numbers are single digits (0-9)
- All subtraction results are positive (e.g., 7-2, not 2-7)

### Adaptive Difficulty
The game tracks your performance for each problem (e.g., "5+3" or "7-2"). Problems you get wrong more often will appear more frequently in future questions, especially at higher levels. This helps you practice the ones you need to work on most.

### Data Storage
All data is stored locally in your browser using LocalStorage:
- Player profiles
- Current level for each profile
- Statistics for each problem (correct/wrong counts)
- Last played timestamp

## Getting Started

### Local Development

1. Clone or download this repository
2. Open `index.html` in a web browser
3. No build process or server required!

### File Structure

```
sumapp/
├── index.html      # Main HTML file
├── style.css       # Styling
├── main.js         # Game flow and UI
├── gameLogic.js    # Game mechanics and adaptive difficulty
├── profiles.js     # Profile management
├── storage.js      # LocalStorage handling
├── keyboard.js     # Virtual keyboard component
├── analytics.js    # Analytics dashboard (admin)
└── README.md       # This file
```

## Deployment to GitHub Pages

1. Create a new repository on GitHub
2. Push all files to the repository
3. Go to repository Settings → Pages
4. Select the branch (usually `main` or `master`)
5. Select the folder (usually `/root`)
6. Click Save
7. Your game will be available at `https://[username].github.io/[repository-name]`

### Alternative: Using a `/docs` folder

If you prefer to use a `/docs` folder:
1. Create a `docs` folder in your repository
2. Move all files into the `docs` folder
3. In GitHub Pages settings, select `/docs` as the source

## Game Flow

1. **Menu**: Start screen with "Start Game" button
2. **Profile Selection**: Create a new profile or select an existing one
3. **Game Play**: 
   - Answer addition and subtraction questions within the time limit
   - Get immediate feedback on each answer
   - Progress through questions in the level
4. **Level Complete**: 
   - See your results
   - If you passed (100%), unlock the next level
   - If you didn't pass, try again to improve

## Customization

### Adjusting Success Threshold
In `gameLogic.js`, modify the `successThreshold` value:
```javascript
successThreshold: 1.0, // Change to 0.7 for 70%, 0.8 for 80%, 0.9 for 90%, etc.
```

### Adjusting Time Limits
In `gameLogic.js`, modify the `levels` array:
```javascript
levels: [
  { level: 1, timeLimitSeconds: 10, questionsPerLevel: 10 },
  // ... modify timeLimitSeconds for each level
]
```

### Adjusting Questions Per Level
In the same `levels` array, modify `questionsPerLevel`:
```javascript
{ level: 1, timeLimitSeconds: 10, questionsPerLevel: 15 }, // 15 questions instead of 10
```

## Browser Compatibility

Works in all modern browsers that support:
- ES6 JavaScript
- LocalStorage API
- CSS3 (flexbox, gradients)

Tested in:
- Chrome/Edge (latest)
- Firefox (latest)
- Safari (latest)

## License

Free to use and modify for personal or educational purposes.

## Credits

Created as a static web application for practicing one-digit addition and subtraction with adaptive learning.
